# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

* [`anycast_services`](#anycast_services): Manage Quagga associated OSPF setup for anycast services

### Data types

* [`Anycast_services::CIDR`](#anycast_servicescidr): A type representing IPv4 & IPv6 CIDR notation

## Classes

### <a name="anycast_services"></a>`anycast_services`

Manage Quagga associated OSPF setup for anycast services such as DNS and RADIUS.

#### Examples

##### Advertise two anycast addresses

```puppet
class { 'anycast_services':
  zebra_anycast_addresses => [
    '10.240.0.10/32',
    '10.240.1.10/32',
  ],
  ospfd_anycast_networks  => [
    {
      'address' => '10.2.1.0/24',
      'area'    => '0.0.0.0',
    },
    {
      'address' => '10.240.0.10/32',
      'area'    => '0.0.0.0',
    },
    {
      'address' => '10.240.1.10/32',
      'area'    => '0.0.0.0',
    },
  ],
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `anycast_services` class:

* [`zebra_anycast_addresses`](#zebra_anycast_addresses)
* [`ospfd_anycast_networks`](#ospfd_anycast_networks)
* [`ospfd_interfaces`](#ospfd_interfaces)
* [`zebra_interfaces`](#zebra_interfaces)
* [`ospfd_log_adjacency_changes`](#ospfd_log_adjacency_changes)
* [`ospfd_auto_cost_reference_bandwidth`](#ospfd_auto_cost_reference_bandwidth)
* [`ospf_area_authentications`](#ospf_area_authentications)
* [`ospfd_password`](#ospfd_password)
* [`zebra_enable_password`](#zebra_enable_password)
* [`zebra_password`](#zebra_password)
* [`quagga_log_directory`](#quagga_log_directory)
* [`ospfd_router_id`](#ospfd_router_id)
* [`zebra_router_id`](#zebra_router_id)
* [`ospfd_hostname`](#ospfd_hostname)
* [`ospfd_log_file`](#ospfd_log_file)
* [`zebra_hostname`](#zebra_hostname)
* [`zebra_log_file`](#zebra_log_file)

##### <a name="zebra_anycast_addresses"></a>`zebra_anycast_addresses`

Data type: `Array[Anycast_services::CIDR]`

Addresses to be advertised via anycast.

##### <a name="ospfd_anycast_networks"></a>`ospfd_anycast_networks`

Data type: `Array[Hash[String[1], Stdlib::IP::Address::V4]]`

An array of hashes that contain the network CIDR and the OSPF area.
Each entry in the array represents a `network` line in ospfd.conf within the `router ospf` section.

##### <a name="ospfd_interfaces"></a>`ospfd_interfaces`

Data type: `Array`

Interfaces to use with OSPF.

Default value: `['lo', $facts['networking']['primary']]`

##### <a name="zebra_interfaces"></a>`zebra_interfaces`

Data type: `Array`

Interfaces to use with Zebra.

Default value: `['lo', $facts['networking']['primary']]`

##### <a name="ospfd_log_adjacency_changes"></a>`ospfd_log_adjacency_changes`

Data type: `Boolean`

Determines if the `log-adjacency-changes` directive is added to the `router ospf` section.

Default value: ``true``

##### <a name="ospfd_auto_cost_reference_bandwidth"></a>`ospfd_auto_cost_reference_bandwidth`

Data type: `Integer`

The value use to determine route cost. Note that it is important to ensure reference bandwidth
is consistent across all routers and/or hosts.

Default value: `1000`

##### <a name="ospf_area_authentications"></a>`ospf_area_authentications`

Data type: `Optional[Hash[Stdlib::IP::Address::V4::Nosubnet, String[1]]]`

An optional hash where the key is the area and the value is the authentication mechanism.

Default value: ``undef``

##### <a name="ospfd_password"></a>`ospfd_password`

Data type: `Sensitive[String[1]]`

The value for `password` in ospfd.conf

Default value: `Sensitive('zebra')`

##### <a name="zebra_enable_password"></a>`zebra_enable_password`

Data type: `Sensitive[String[1]]`

The value for `enable password` in zebra.conf

Default value: `Sensitive('zebra')`

##### <a name="zebra_password"></a>`zebra_password`

Data type: `Sensitive[String[1]]`

The value for `password` in zebra.conf

Default value: `Sensitive('zebra')`

##### <a name="quagga_log_directory"></a>`quagga_log_directory`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

The directory that will contain logs from zebra and ospfd

Default value: `'/var/log/quagga'`

##### <a name="ospfd_router_id"></a>`ospfd_router_id`

Data type: `Stdlib::IP::Address::V4::Nosubnet`

The router id for ospfd in IPv4 format

Default value: `$facts['networking']['ip']`

##### <a name="zebra_router_id"></a>`zebra_router_id`

Data type: `Stdlib::IP::Address::V4::Nosubnet`

The router id for zebra in IPv4 format

Default value: `$facts['networking']['ip']`

##### <a name="ospfd_hostname"></a>`ospfd_hostname`

Data type: `String[1]`

The value for `hostname` in opsfd.conf

Default value: `$facts['networking']['hostname']`

##### <a name="ospfd_log_file"></a>`ospfd_log_file`

Data type: `String[1]`

The file for ospfd to log to. This file will be placed in the directory specified in `quagga_log_directory`

Default value: `'ospfd.log'`

##### <a name="zebra_hostname"></a>`zebra_hostname`

Data type: `String[1]`

The value for `hostname` in zebra.conf

Default value: `$facts['networking']['hostname']`

##### <a name="zebra_log_file"></a>`zebra_log_file`

Data type: `String[1]`

The file for zebra to log to. This file will be placed in the directory specified in `quagga_log_directory`

Default value: `'zebra.log'`

## Data types

### <a name="anycast_servicescidr"></a>`Anycast_services::CIDR`

The CIDR used for an anycast service can be either IPv4 or IPv6.
This type creates a shorthand way of referencing stdlib's validation of either.

Alias of

```puppet
Variant[Stdlib::IP::Address::V4::CIDR, Stdlib::IP::Address::V6::CIDR]
```

